---
title: Core Concepts
nav_order: 3
---
# Core Concepts

The framework is broken up into three core concepts: Generators, Actions, and Agents.

These concepts provide a foundation for building machine learning models and managing various tasks using the Sublayer AI framework. Here’s an exploration of each core concept:

### Generators
Generators are responsible for producing specific outputs from input data. They are the foundation of the Sublayer framework, enabling the creation of distinct models focusing on particular generation tasks. No actions or complex decision-making are involved.

- [Generators Documentation]({% link docs/concepts/generators.md %})

### Actions
Actions perform particular tasks to either obtain inputs for a Generator or act on the output generated by a Generator. They are similar to tools in other agent frameworks, concentrating on singular operations and abstaining from intricate decision-making processes.

---
**Example Actions:**
- [WriteFileAction](https://github.com/sublayerapp/tddbot/blob/43297c5da9445bd6c8882d5e3876cff5fc6b2650/lib/tddbot/sublayer/actions/write_file_action.rb): Writes text to a specified file.
- [RunTestCommandAction](https://github.com/sublayerapp/tddbot/blob/43297c5da9445bd6c8882d5e3876cff5fc6b2650/lib/tddbot/sublayer/actions/run_test_command_action.rb): Runs a test command on the command line returning the output.

---

- [Actions Documentation]({% link docs/concepts/actions.md %})

### Agents
Agents function as autonomous entities designed to carry out specific tasks or oversee systems. They can be triggered by various stimuli such as file changes, incoming data, or specific conditions, working towards goals like data analysis or system updates.

---
**Example Agents:**
- [RSpecAgent](https://github.com/sublayerapp/tddbot/blob/main/spec/agents/examples/rspec_agent.rb): Triggered by file changes, aims to pass tests by running them and updating implementations accordingly.

---

- [Agents Documentation]({% link docs/concepts/agents.md %})

### Sublayer CLI
The Sublayer Command-Line Interface (CLI) is a powerful tool that complements the core concepts, providing users with commands to generate projects, actions, agents, and generators efficiently. Detailed documentation helps users utilize the CLI to its fullest potential.

---
**Key CLI Commands:**
- `sublayer new PROJECT_NAME`: Initiates a new Sublayer project.
- `sublayer generate:generator`: Produces a new Sublayer generator class.
- `sublayer generate:agent`: Generates a new Sublayer agent class.
- `sublayer generate:action`: Creates a new Sublayer action class.
- `sublayer help [COMMAND]`: Delivers in-depth assistance for the given command.

---

- [Sublayer CLI Documentation]({% link docs/guides/cli_details.md %})

Browse the links below to dive deeper into each of these concepts:

* [Generators]({% link docs/concepts/generators.md %})
* [Actions]({% link docs/concepts/actions.md %})
* [Agents]({% link docs/concepts/agents.md %})

Each concept offers unique tools and functions central to leveraging the Sublayer framework's full potential, enabling developers to create sophisticated AI-driven applications effortlessly.